README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <img src="./docs/logo.jpg" />
</p>
<p align="center">
    Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@tukacszoltan1984?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Zoltan Tukacs</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/s/photos/dog-grass?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a>
</p>

--------------------------------------------------------------------

# Watchdog for your Chia farm

So you've become a [Chia](https://www.chia.net) farmer and want to maximize the probability of getting a reward? Chiadog
helps with automated monitoring and sends you a mobile notification in case something appears to malfunction.

## Supported Notifications

| Subsystem | Notification (example values) | Priority |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------|
| Harvester | Your harvester appears to be offline! No events for the past 400 seconds. | HIGH |
| Harvester | Disconnected HDD? The total plot count decreased from 100 to 40. | HIGH |
| Harvester | Experiencing networking issues? Harvester did not participate in any challenge for 120 seconds. It's now working again. | NORMAL |
| Harvester | Seeking plots took too long: 21.42 seconds! | NORMAL |
| Full Node | Experiencing networking issues? Skipped 42 signage points! | NORMAL |
| Daily Stats | Hello farmer! 👋 Here's what happened in the last 24 hours: <br /><br /> Proofs 🧾: **2** found<br /> Search 🔍: <br /> - average: **0.46**s <br /> - over 5s: 2 occasions <br /> - over 15s: 1 occasions <br/> Plots 🌱: **42**, new: **2** <br /> Eligible plots 🥇: **0.08** average<br /> Skipped SPs ⚠️: 7 (0.01%) <br /> | LOW |

## How it works?

It parses the `debug.log` generated by the chia process and runs various checks to determine the health of your farmer.
Among others, it can detect if your node has lost sync and the farmer is no longer participating in challenges, or if
one of your external HDDs disconnected and your harvester doesn't have access to the full amount of plots you have.

It only requires read-access to your `debug.log` file and internet connection to send out notifications. Refer to the
advanced section on running `chiadog` in a sandboxed environment further below if you'd like to enforce that.

## Supported Integrations for Notifications

You may use one (or more) of the following integrations to receive notifications from `chiadog`.

| Integration | Advantages | Cost |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------|
| [Pushover](https://pushover.net/) | High priority notifications that can override your phone's silent mode. | $5 one time purchase after 30 day trial. |
| E-mail | You probably already have an email. No additional apps. | Free |
| Slack | Quick & easy setup. | Free |
| Discord | Quick & easy setup. | Free |
| Telegram | Quick & easy setup. | Free |
| Shell script (beta) | Execute anything in your own script. | Free |

For detailed guide on how to test and configure, please refer to [INTEGRATIONS.md](INTEGRATIONS.md).

# Getting started

## Pre-requisites

- Linux or MacOS, ([maybe](https://github.com/martomi/chiadog/pull/43) Windows)
- Python 3.7+
- Enabled `INFO` logs on your chia farmer

### How to enable INFO logs on chia farmer?

First configure the log level to `INFO`. This ensures that all logs necessary for chiadog to operate are available
under `~/.chia/mainnet/log/debug.log`.

```
chia configure -log-level=INFO
```

Then restart your farmer to apply the changes:

```
chia start --restart farmer
```

Check that logs are coming in:

```
cat ~/.chia/mainnet/log/debug.log
```

## Installation

_For updating from previous version, see section below._

1. Clone the repository

```
git clone https://github.com/martomi/chiadog.git
cd chiadog
```

2. Run the install script.

```
./install.sh
```

3. Copy the example config file

```
cp config-example.yaml config.yaml
```

4. Open up `config.yaml` in your editor and configure it to your preferences.

## Updating to the latest release

_Skip this if you followed the above section_.

```
cd chiadog

git fetch
git checkout main
git pull

./install.sh
```

> Important: Automated migration of config is not supported. Please check that your `config.yaml` has all new fields introduced in `config-example.yaml` and add anything missing. If correctly migrated, you shouldn't get any ERROR logs.

## Monitoring a local harvester / farmer

1. Open `config.yaml` and configure `file_log_consumer`:
    - You need to enable the file log consumer to read local chia log files
    - Double-check that the path to your chia logs is correct

2. Start the watchdog

```
./start.sh
```

3. Verify that your plots are detected. Within a few seconds you should see INFO log:

```
Detected new plots. Farming with 42 plots.
```

Note: You can also monitor multiple remote harvesters and run chiadog on a separate machine. Please refer to the
advanced section of the README.

## Troubleshooting

The best way to check that everything works on your system is to run the unit tests:

```
. ./venv/bin/activate
python3 -m unittest
```

All tests are expected to complete with an `OK` status. It's highly recommended to also run the notification specific
tests described in the notification section above.

You can enable more verbose logging from `config.yaml` by changing `INFO` to `DEBUG`. You should see logs for every
keep-alive event from the harvester.

# Advanced Usage

## Redundant monitoring for `chiadog`

There are failure-cases in which `chiadog` is helpless. For example, your computer completely freezes or shuts down.
Perhaps your entire home network goes down.
`chiadog` won't be able to send you a notification.

There's a way however: in the [config](config-example.yaml) under the section of `keep_alive_monitor`, you can enable
pinging to a remote service that will act as a watchdog of `chiadog`. A second level of redundancy, if you wish!

You may chose your favourite service for that, I've tested it with
[HealthChecks.io](https://healthchecks.io). It's free to signup and create an endpoint that expects to receive pings
every 10 minutes. If it does not, it will notify you. It has integrations with Pushover, Email, Slack, Discord and more.

## Running `chiadog` in the background

```
. ./venv/bin/activate
nohup python3 -u main.py --config config.yaml > output.log &
```

To stop chiadog, you can find the Process ID (PID) via `ps aux | grep main.py` and then softly interrupt the process
with `kill -SIGINT <pid_here>`.

## Running `chiadog` in sandboxed environment

We're in the early stages of exploring the best way to provide easy to setup sandboxed environment where the `chiadog`
process is completely isolated from potentially accessing your private keys. Contributions in that direction are very
welcome. Meanwhile you can check out @ajacobson repository
for [chiadog-docker](https://github.com/ajacobson/chiadog-docker).

Alternatively, [as suggested here](https://github.com/martomi/chiadog/issues/24) you can run `chiadog` from a unix user
with limited permissions.

## Remote monitoring of multiple harvesters

Check out the wiki page
on [Monitoring Multiple Harvesters](https://github.com/martomi/chiadog/wiki/Monitoring-Multiple-Harvesters).

# Contributing

Contributions are always welcome! Please refer to [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) documentation.

Commit message:

Added Windows Installation instructions
Added installation instructions for local setup on Windows to WINDOWS.md

Updated references in README.md

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <img src="./docs/logo.jpg" />
</p>
<p align="center">
    Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@tukacszoltan1984?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Zoltan Tukacs</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/s/photos/dog-grass?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a>
</p>

--------------------------------------------------------------------

# Watchdog for your Chia farm

So you've become a [Chia](https://www.chia.net) farmer and want to maximize the probability of getting a reward? Chiadog
helps with automated monitoring and sends you a mobile notification in case something appears to malfunction.

## Supported Notifications

| Subsystem | Notification (example values) | Priority |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------|
| Harvester | Your harvester appears to be offline! No events for the past 400 seconds. | HIGH |
| Harvester | Disconnected HDD? The total plot count decreased from 100 to 40. | HIGH |
| Harvester | Experiencing networking issues? Harvester did not participate in any challenge for 120 seconds. It's now working again. | NORMAL |
| Harvester | Seeking plots took too long: 21.42 seconds! | NORMAL |
| Full Node | Experiencing networking issues? Skipped 42 signage points! | NORMAL |
| Daily Stats | Hello farmer! 👋 Here's what happened in the last 24 hours: <br /><br /> Proofs 🧾: **2** found<br /> Search 🔍: <br /> - average: **0.46**s <br /> - over 5s: 2 occasions <br /> - over 15s: 1 occasions <br/> Plots 🌱: **42**, new: **2** <br /> Eligible plots 🥇: **0.08** average<br /> Skipped SPs ⚠️: 7 (0.01%) <br /> | LOW |

## How it works?

It parses the `debug.log` generated by the chia process and runs various checks to determine the health of your farmer.
Among others, it can detect if your node has lost sync and the farmer is no longer participating in challenges, or if
one of your external HDDs disconnected and your harvester doesn't have access to the full amount of plots you have.

It only requires read-access to your `debug.log` file and internet connection to send out notifications. Refer to the
advanced section on running `chiadog` in a sandboxed environment further below if you'd like to enforce that.

## Supported Integrations for Notifications

You may use one (or more) of the following integrations to receive notifications from `chiadog`.

| Integration | Advantages | Cost |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------|
| [Pushover](https://pushover.net/) | High priority notifications that can override your phone's silent mode. | $5 one time purchase after 30 day trial. |
| E-mail | You probably already have an email. No additional apps. | Free |
| Slack | Quick & easy setup. | Free |
| Discord | Quick & easy setup. | Free |
| Telegram | Quick & easy setup. | Free |
| Shell script (beta) | Execute anything in your own script. | Free |

For detailed guide on how to test and configure, please refer to [INTEGRATIONS.md](INTEGRATIONS.md).

# Getting started

## Pre-requisites

- Linux, MacOS & Windows
- Python 3.7+
- Git  
- Enabled `INFO` logs on your chia farmer

The instructions below are specific to Linux and MacOS, for installing `chiadog` on Windows, please refer
to [this separate README](XXX).

### How to enable INFO logs on chia farmer?

First configure the log level to `INFO`. This ensures that all logs necessary for chiadog to operate are available
under `~/.chia/mainnet/log/debug.log`.

```
chia configure -log-level=INFO
```

Then restart your farmer to apply the changes:

```
chia start --restart farmer
```

Check that logs are coming in:

```
cat ~/.chia/mainnet/log/debug.log
```

## Installation

_For updating from previous version, see section below._

1. Clone the repository

```
git clone https://github.com/martomi/chiadog.git
cd chiadog
```

2. Run the install script.

```
./install.sh
```

3. Copy the example config file

```
cp config-example.yaml config.yaml
```

4. Open up `config.yaml` in your editor and configure it to your preferences.

## Updating to the latest release

_Skip this if you followed the above section_.

```
cd chiadog

git fetch
git checkout main
git pull

./install.sh
```

> Important: Automated migration of config is not supported. Please check that your `config.yaml` has all new fields introduced in `config-example.yaml` and add anything missing. If correctly migrated, you shouldn't get any ERROR logs.

## Monitoring a local harvester / farmer

1. Open `config.yaml` and configure `file_log_consumer`:
    - You need to enable the file log consumer to read local chia log files
    - Double-check that the path to your chia logs is correct

2. Start the watchdog

```
./start.sh
```

3. Verify that your plots are detected. Within a few seconds you should see INFO log:

```
Detected new plots. Farming with 42 plots.
```

Note: You can also monitor multiple remote harvesters and run chiadog on a separate machine. Please refer to the
advanced section of the README.

## Troubleshooting

The best way to check that everything works on your system is to run the unit tests:

```
. ./venv/bin/activate
python3 -m unittest
```

All tests are expected to complete with an `OK` status. It's highly recommended to also run the notification specific
tests described in the notification section above.

You can enable more verbose logging from `config.yaml` by changing `INFO` to `DEBUG`. You should see logs for every
keep-alive event from the harvester.

# Advanced Usage

## Redundant monitoring for `chiadog`

There are failure-cases in which `chiadog` is helpless. For example, your computer completely freezes or shuts down.
Perhaps your entire home network goes down.
`chiadog` won't be able to send you a notification.

There's a way however: in the [config](config-example.yaml) under the section of `keep_alive_monitor`, you can enable
pinging to a remote service that will act as a watchdog of `chiadog`. A second level of redundancy, if you wish!

You may chose your favourite service for that, I've tested it with
[HealthChecks.io](https://healthchecks.io). It's free to signup and create an endpoint that expects to receive pings
every 10 minutes. If it does not, it will notify you. It has integrations with Pushover, Email, Slack, Discord and more.

## Running `chiadog` in the background

```
. ./venv/bin/activate
nohup python3 -u main.py --config config.yaml > output.log &
```

To stop chiadog, you can find the Process ID (PID) via `ps aux | grep main.py` and then softly interrupt the process
with `kill -SIGINT <pid_here>`.

## Running `chiadog` in sandboxed environment

We're in the early stages of exploring the best way to provide easy to setup sandboxed environment where the `chiadog`
process is completely isolated from potentially accessing your private keys. Contributions in that direction are very
welcome. Meanwhile you can check out @ajacobson repository
for [chiadog-docker](https://github.com/ajacobson/chiadog-docker).

Alternatively, [as suggested here](https://github.com/martomi/chiadog/issues/24) you can run `chiadog` from a unix user
with limited permissions.

## Remote monitoring of multiple harvesters

Check out the wiki page
on [Monitoring Multiple Harvesters](https://github.com/martomi/chiadog/wiki/Monitoring-Multiple-Harvesters).

# Contributing

Contributions are always welcome! Please refer to [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) documentation.
